feat(regex): matchStringsStrategy (#7687)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/configuration-options.md

}
```

### matchStringsStrategy

> `matchStringsStrategy` defines which procedure should be used to interpret the with `matchString` defined regular expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`matchStringsStrategy` controls behavior when multiple `matchStrings` values are provided.
```

Three options are available:

- `any` (default)
- `recursive`
- `combination`

#### any

Each provided `matchString` will be matched individually to the content of the `packageFile`.
If a `matchString` has multiple matches in a file each will be interpreted as an independent dependency.

As example the following configuration will update all 3 lines in the Dockerfile.
renovate.json:

```json
{
  "regexManagers": [
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^Dockerfile$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "any",
      "matchStrings": [
        "ENV [A-Z]+_VERSION=(?<currentValue>.*) # (?<datasource>.*?)/(?<depName>.*?)(\\&versioning=(?<versioning>.*?))?\\s",
        "FROM (?<depName>\\S*):(?<currentValue>\\S*)"
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

a Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM amd64/ubuntu:18.04

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

ENV GRADLE_VERSION=6.2 # gradle-version/gradle&versioning=maven
ENV NODE_VERSION=10.19.0 # github-tags/nodejs/node&versioning=node
```

#### recursive

> If using `recursive` the `matchString` will be looped through and the full match of the last will define the range of the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using `recursive` the `matchStrings` will be looped through and the full match of the last will define the range of the next one.
```

This can be used to narrow down the search area to prevent multiple matches.

> How ever the `recursive` strategy allows to handle multiple dependencies. The workflow is as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the `recursive` strategy still allows the matching of multiple dependencies as described below.
```

> All matches of the first `matchString` are detected, for each of these matches the match range will used as basis for the second `matchString`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All matches of the first `matchStrings` pattern are detected, then each of these matches will used as basis be used as the input for the next `matchStrings` pattern, and so on.
```

> If this `matchString` again has multiple matches it will split again. This process will be followed as long there is a match,
> a regex is available or, a dependency is detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the next `matchStrings` pattern has multiple matches then it will split again.
This process will be followed as long there is a match plus a next `matchingStrings` pattern is available or a dependency is detected.
```

I don't get the last bit though. Does it stop using `matchStrings` if a dependency is already detected?

This is an example how this can work.
The first regex manager will only upgrade `grafana/loki` as looks for the `backup` key then looks for the `test` key and then uses this result for extraction of necessary attributes.

> How ever the second will upgrade both definitions as its first `matchString` matches both `test` keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the second regex manager will upgrade both definitions as its first `matchStrings` matches both `test` keys.
```

renovate.json:

```json
{
  "regexManagers": [
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^example.json$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "recursive",
      "matchStrings": [
        "\"backup\":\\s*{[^}]*}",
        "\"test\":\\s*\\{[^}]*}",
        "\"name\":\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"[^\"]*\"type\":\\s*\"(?<datasource>.*)\"[^\"]*\"value\":\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\""
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    },
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^example.json$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "recursive",
      "matchStrings": [
        "\"test\":\\s*\\{[^}]*}",
        "\"name\":\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"[^\"]*\"type\":\\s*\"(?<datasource>.*)\"[^\"]*\"value\":\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\""
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

example.json:

```json
{
  "backup": {
    "test": {
      "name": "grafana/loki",
      "type": "docker",
      "value": "1.6.1"
    }
  },
  "setup": {
    "test": {
      "name": "python",
      "type": "docker",
      "value": "3.9.0"
    }
  }
}
```

#### combination

> This option allows to combine the values of multiple lines inside your file. This is also possible using both other `matchStringStrategy`s
> but with these the file content between the lines has to be factored in and can easily broken in some scenarios e.g. someone
> adds a comment between the lines or changes the order.
> `combination` will only update a single dependency, if you want to update multiple dependencies using `combination` you
> have to define multiple regex managers.
> As the other strategies will consider all matches of `matchStrings`, but later set regex groups will overwrite earlier ones.
> At the end the values will be merged, and a single dependency will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option allows the possibility to combine the values of multiple lines inside a file.
While using multiple lines is also possible using both other `matchStringStrategy` values, the `combination` approach is less susceptible to white space or line breaks stopping a match.

`combination` will only match at most one dependency per file, so if you want to update multiple dependencies using `combination` you have to define multiple regex managers.

Matched group values will be merged to form a single dependency.
```

renovate.json:

```json
{
  "regexManagers": [
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^main.yml$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "combination",
      "matchStrings": [
        "prometheus_image:\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"\\s*//",
        "prometheus_version:\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\"\\s*//"
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    },
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^main.yml$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "combination",
      "matchStrings": [
        "thanos_image:\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"\\s*//",
        "thanos_version:\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\"\\s*//"
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

Ansible variable file ( yaml ):

```yaml
prometheus_image: "prom/prometheus"  // a comment
prometheus_version: "v2.21.0" // a comment
------
thanos_image: "prom/prometheus"  // a comment
thanos_version: "0.15.0" // a comment
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the above example, each regex manager will match a single dependency each.
```
